samples: nrf9160: modem_shell: Document improvements (#8413)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: samples/nrf9160/modem_shell/README.rst

The subsections list the MoSh features and show shell command examples for their usage.

.. note::

>    Some of the information is available in MoSh command usages and that information is not duplicated into this document.

Reviewer: I would like to clarify this a bit. The previous sentence talks about "command examples for their usage", which refers to the examples in this document, while "usage" in this sentence talks about the help which can be seen by typing the command in the shell without any parameters. Here's a suggestion:
```suggestion
   Some of the information is available in MoSh command usage, that can be seen by typing the command without any parameters.
   All information is not duplicated into this document.
```

Many of the changes are applied when going to online mode for the next time.
You can store some link subcommand parameters into settings, which are persistent between sessions.

> Rel14 features are enabled by default, i.e., they are set when going into normal mode and this applies to bootup too.

Reviewer 2: When mentioning rel14 for the first time, maybe use the full term "3GPP Release 14 features" to be clear. Also do you think we should list what are those features? Even if the reader was familiar with 3GPP releases, it is not evident what is included in the set. Or is it enough to list them in AT-cmd manual?

Author: You are right that we need something more about those features. However, I'm not keen on adding the feature lists to MOSH documentation. I'll try to get a reference to AT command manual.

Many of the changes are applied when going to online mode for the next time.
You can store some link subcommand parameters into settings, which are persistent between sessions.

3GPP Release 14 features are enabled by default, i.e., they are set when going into normal mode and this applies to bootup too.
You can see the list of supported features in `3GPP Release 14 features AT command`_.
3GPP Release 14 features can be disabled when going into normal mode by using ``link funmode --normal_no_rel14`` command and

> they can be disabled during autoconnect in bootup by using ``link nmodeauto --enable_no_rel14`` command.

Reviewer: Should these be on the same line, although it's quite long?

Reviewer: Just following the instructions given by technical writers. 😄 Maybe the sentence is too long and should be split in two?

Author: If they want long sentences not to be split then I'll make it long but let's see what they say.

> 3GPP Release 14 features are enabled by default, i.e., they are set when going into normal mode and this applies to bootup too.
> You can see the list of supported features in `3GPP Release 14 features AT command`_.
> 3GPP Release 14 features can be disabled when going into normal mode by using ``link funmode --normal_no_rel14`` command and
> they can be disabled during autoconnect in bootup by using ``link nmodeauto --enable_no_rel14`` command.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3GPP Release 14 features are enabled by default, which means they are set when going into normal mode and when booting up.
For the list of supported features, refer to `3GPP Release 14 features AT command`_.
To disable these features in normal mode,  use the ``link funmode --normal_no_rel14`` command.
During autoconnect in bootup, use the ``link nmodeauto --enable_no_rel14`` command.
```

You can use the AT command module to send AT commands to the modem, individually or
in a separate plain AT command mode where also pipelining of AT commands is supported.

.. note::
   Using of AT commands that read information from the modem is safe when used together with other MoSh commands.
   However, it is not advised to write any values with AT commands and use MoSh commands among them.

>    If you mix AT commands and MoSh commands, you need to understand the internals of what those commands do in practice.

Author: Good comment. I've modified this sentence to:
`If you mix AT commands and MoSh commands, the internal state of MoSh might get out of synchronization and result in unexpected behavior.`
Is this fine?

.. note::

>    When using ``at`` command, any quotation marks ("), apostrophes (') and backslashes (\) within the AT command syntax must be escaped with backslash (\).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   When using ``at`` command, any quotation marks ("), apostrophes (') and backslashes (\) within the AT command syntax must be escaped with a backslash (\).
```

You can use the AT command module to send AT commands to the modem, individually or
in a separate plain AT command mode where also pipelining of AT commands is supported.

.. note::

>    Using of AT commands that read information from the modem is safe when used together with other MoSh commands.
>    However, it is not advised to write any values with AT commands and use MoSh commands among them.
>    If you mix AT commands and MoSh commands, the internal state of MoSh might get out of synchronization and result in unexpected behavior.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   Using AT commands that read information from the modem is safe together with MoSh commands.
   However, it is not recommended to write any values with AT commands and use MoSh commands among them.
   If you mix AT commands and MoSh commands, the internal state of MoSh might get out of synchronization and result in unexpected behavior.
```

.. note::
   When using ``at`` command, any quotation marks ("), apostrophes (') and backslashes (\) within the AT command syntax must be escaped with a backslash (\).

>    Percentage sign (%) is often needed and can be written as is.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   The percentage sign (%) is often needed and can be written as is.
```
Could we combine these two notes?

     at at%NBRGRSRP

> * Illustrate escaping of quotation marks in command locking network search to specific operator:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Escape quotation marks in a command targeting the network search to a specific operator:
```

* Create and manage socket connections.
* Send and receive data.

.. note::

>    When both normal (CP-)RAI and 3GPP Release 14 AS-RAI are enabled, which can be the case for NB-IOT,
>    then both are signalled. It depends on the network configuration and prioritization, which RAI takes affect.

Reviewer: Should we just say "CP-RAI" instead of "normal (CP-)RAI"? Or is "normal RAI" clear for everybody? :)
```suggestion
   When both CP-RAI and 3GPP Release 14 AS-RAI are enabled, which can be the case for NB-IoT,
   then both are signalled. It depends on the network configuration and prioritization, which RAI takes affect.
```

Author: Discussed with Jouni and decided to open up the terminology a bit more:
`When both 3GPP Release 13 Control Plane (CP) RAI and 3GPP Release 14 Access Stratum (AS) RAI are enabled.`
Please resolve if this is fine.

Reviewer 2: Yes, the terminology-wise it's clear now. Does signalled mean here "requested from the network"? Also this paragraph seems a bit out of place here IMO. Could it be placed in the end, after RAI example?

Author: I don't remember exactly the signaling anymore as it's been quite a while but there is at least RAI support entry which network sends while LTE connection is negotiated with the network.

I haven't been able to find a good place for this text. We haven't had much text within the examples but there are some. I've moved it now and need to wait how it looks after document build is completed.

Author: I guess this is now fine in the generated document. Please close if fine.

* Create and manage socket connections.
* Send and receive data.

.. note::
   When both 3GPP Release 13 Control Plane (CP) RAI and 3GPP Release 14 Access Stratum (AS) RAI are enabled,
   which can be the case for NB-IOT, then both are signalled.

>    It depends on the network configuration and prioritization, which RAI takes effect.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   When both 3GPP Release 13 Control Plane (CP) RAI and 3GPP Release 14 Access Stratum (AS) RAI are enabled,
   which can be the case for NB-IOT, both are signalled.
   Which RAI takes effect depends on the network configuration and prioritization.
```
Have we introduced RAI before? If not, we might want to open the abbreviation.

     sock rai -i 0 --rai_last
     sock send -i 0 -d testing

  When both 3GPP Release 13 Control Plane (CP) Release Assistance Indication (RAI) and 3GPP Release 14 Access Stratum (AS) RAI are enabled,

>   which can be the case for NB-IOT, both are signalled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  which can be the case for NB-IoT, both are signalled.
```

>   When both 3GPP Release 13 Control Plane (CP) RAI and 3GPP Release 14 Access Stratum (AS) RAI are enabled,
>   which can be the case for NB-IOT, then both are signalled.
>   It depends on the network configuration and prioritization, which RAI takes effect.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  When both 3GPP Release 13 Control Plane (CP) RAI and 3GPP Release 14 Access Stratum (AS) RAI are enabled,
  which can be the case for NB-IOT, both are signalled.
  Which RAI takes effect depends on the network configuration and prioritization.
```
Have we introduced RAI before? If not, should we want to open the abbreviation?

Author: Not in this document page but elsewhere yes. I will add this.

  Note the syntax for escaping the quotation marks.

----

.. _uart_command:

UART
====

Disable UARTs for power measurement purposes.

* Disable UARTs for 30 seconds:

  .. code-block:: console

     uart disable 30

> * Disable UARTs whenever modem is in sleep and subscribe to modem sleep notifications:

Reviewer: It could be said that `link msleep --subscribe` is a requirement of the `uart during_sleep disable` command, for example:
```suggestion
* Disable UARTs whenever modem is in sleep (modem sleep notifications must be subscribed to use this feature):
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Disable UARTs whenever modem is in sleep (modem sleep notifications must be subscribed to in order to use this feature):
```

Author: If it's needed, why we don't do it automatically in the SW?

Reviewer: That is actually a good question. 😄 Maybe we should just modify the implementation and remove the need for this comment. @hiltunent

Reviewer: I had a quick look at this. The modem sleep notification implementation in modem_shell takes an optional parameter for the threshold (in ms). If it is not given by the user, `CONFIG_LTE_LC_MODEM_SLEEP_NOTIFICATIONS_THRESHOLD_MS` is used instead. We shouldn't overwrite a custom value given by the user when using the `uart` command.

It's not possible to query from modem if sleep notifications are enabled or not. But link module could remember the state and we could do a subscribe with the default values from the `uart` command if modem sleep notifications are not yet subscribed.

Author: Yep, so I'll remove the subscription from the example.

.. _CONFIG_MOSH_REST:

CONFIG_MOSH_REST
   Enable REST client feature in modem shell

.. _CONFIG_MOSH_CLOUD_REST:

CONFIG_MOSH_CLOUD_REST

>    Enable nRF Cloud REST connection feature in modem shell

Reviewer: I would drop the word "connection", because there's really no connection for REST. And "feature" could be plural, but that's not a deal breaker for me. 😄 
```suggestion
   Enable nRF Cloud REST feature in modem shell
```

.. _CONFIG_MOSH_REST:

CONFIG_MOSH_REST

>    Enable REST client feature in modem shell

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   Enable REST client feature in modem shell.
```
Also check the punctuation in a few previous Kconfig definitions.

.. _CONFIG_MOSH_CLOUD_REST:

CONFIG_MOSH_CLOUD_REST

>    Enable nRF Cloud REST feature in modem shell

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   Enable nRF Cloud REST feature in modem shell.
```

.. _CONFIG_MOSH_CLOUD_MQTT:

CONFIG_MOSH_CLOUD_MQTT

>    Enable nRF Cloud MQTT connection feature in modem shell

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   Enable nRF Cloud MQTT connection feature in modem shell.
```

.. _CONFIG_MOSH_AT_CMD_MODE:

CONFIG_MOSH_AT_CMD_MODE

>    Enable AT command mode feature in modem shell

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   Enable AT command mode feature in modem shell.
```

LED 3 (nRF9160 DK)/Blue LED (Thingy:91):
   Indicates the LTE registration status.

Power measurements
==================

Power measurements can be conducted using `Power Profiler Kit II (PPK2)`_.

> To achieve proper power measurement numbers, UART must be disabled.

Reviewer: Should we also add a link to PPK2 documentation, which describes how a DK should be connected for power measurements? This page describes how to setup PPK2 and DK for power measurement:

https://infocenter.nordicsemi.com/topic/ug_ppk2/UG/ppk/setting_up.html

Reviewer: Yes, it is. If we don't want to add a second link here, I think we should at least add a sentence saying that see the PPK2 documentation for instructions how to setup the DK for power measurements. The documentation shows how to connect the wires etc. for both source meter and ampere meter modes.

Author: I've added your suggested changes almost as is. Please check.

> To achieve proper power measurement numbers, UART must be disabled.

Reviewer 2: I would elaborate a little bit. For example: "To achieve representative power measurement results, it is often desirable to disable UART interfaces unless their contribution to overall power consumption is of interest."

> To achieve proper power measurement numbers, UART must be disabled.
> This can be done in modem shell with one of the following actions:
> 
>   * Use MoSh command ``uart`` to disable uarts as mentioned in :ref:`uart_command`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To achieve proper power measurement numbers, UARTs must be disabled.
This can be done in MoSh with one of the following actions:

  * Use MoSh command ``uart`` to disable UARTs as mentioned in :ref:`uart_command`
```

LED 3 (nRF9160 DK)/Blue LED (Thingy:91):
   Indicates the LTE registration status.

Power measurements
==================

> Power measurements can be conducted using `Power Profiler Kit II (PPK2)`_.
> See the PPK2 documentation for instructions how to setup the DK for power measurements.
> The documentation shows how to connect the wires etc. for both source meter and ampere meter modes.
> The same instructions are valid also when using a different meter than PPK2.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can perform power measurements using the `Power Profiler Kit II (PPK2)`_.
See the documentation for instructions on how to setup the DK for power measurements.
The documentation shows, for example, how to connect the wires for both source meter and ampere meter modes.
The same instructions are valid also when using a different meter.
```

> To achieve representative power measurement results, it is often desirable to disable UART interfaces unless their contribution to overall power consumption is of interest.
> This can be done in MoSh with one of the following actions:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To achieve satisfactory power measurement results, it is often desirable to disable UART interfaces unless their contribution to overall power consumption is of interest.
In MoSh, perform one of the following actions:
```

>   * Use MoSh command ``uart`` to disable UARTs as mentioned in :ref:`uart_command`
>   * Press Button 2 in DK to enable/disable UARTs as instructed in :ref:`dk_buttons`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  * Use MoSh command ``uart`` to disable UARTs as in :ref:`uart_command`
  * Press **Button 2** in DK to enable or disable UARTs as instructed in :ref:`dk_buttons`
```

> More information about application power optimizations can be found from :ref:`app_power_opt`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For more information about application power optimizations, refer to :ref:`app_power_opt`.
```
